
.. 3.2.rst:

****************************
  What's New In Tohil 3.2
****************************

========
tclobjs
========

Tohil Tcl objects, tclobjs, are a data type Tohil creates in Python.
Tclobjs have gained considerable new power.  Among them, they now
implement the number protocol.

This means tclobjs can be used for number in numeric calculations
without needing to pass through int() or float(). 

Testing of tclobjs for boolean value now provides tcl
semantics.  'f', 'F', 'n', 'N', 0, substrings case-insentiviely
matching "false" or "no", evaluate as false; 't', 'T', 'y', 'Y', any
number of than 0, substrings matching "true" or "yes", evaulate true.

Tclobjs can be used as one or both operands for addition, subtraction,
multiplication, division, remainder, divmod,
bitwise or, and, xor, left shift, right shift, etc.  Unary ops invert,
negative, position, absolute value all work.

Tclobjs can be used for "inplace" number calculations such as +=, /=, <<=, etc.

Tclobj iterator code was rewritten from Python into C.

Removed almost all of the *as_*" methods of tclobjs that convert tclobjs
into various Python data types.  *tclobj.as_int()* has been replaced by
*int(tclobj)*, *as_bool* by *bool()*, *as_float* by *float()*,
*as_str* by *str()*.  *llength()* has been removed; you can use *len()*
to get the same thing.

Removed tclobj's *as_tuple()* method; use tuple(tclobj) instead.
Likewise removed *as_tclobj()* method; use tohil.tclobi(tclobj) instead.
Remove *as_tcldict()* ; use tohil.tcldict(tclobj) instead.


What's cool is these functions are provided by the tclobj type
implementation, so that are real efficient
in terms of how they interact with the underlying Tcl objects.

The *tclobj.reset()* method has been renamed to *clear()* for consistency
with Python lists and dicts.  It also works for tcldicts.

Tclobj *lappend* method has been renamed to *append* and *lappend_list*
renamed to *extend*, for compatibility with Python's lists.

* tclobjs can now ingest python sets (in addition to lists, tuples, etc,
  which it already could do.)

======================
Tclobj Shadow Vars
======================

Another new feature, Tclobj shadow vars, `t = tohil.tclvar('t')`, makes *t* a
tclobj that shadows a variable *t* in the Tcl interpreter.  Any changes to the
variable from the Tcl side are "seen" from the Python side, and vice versa.
The variable can also be an array element.

======================
Tcldicts
======================

* Tcldict objects now provide many methods that standard Python dicts
  provide, such as keys(), values(), items().  Because of this,
  dict(tcldict) now works.

* The clear() method is now supported to empty the Tcl dict.

* A new tcldict *pop* method behaves the same as pop for standard Python dicts,
  popping the last item in the list if no position is specified, else popping
  the specified position, i.e. removing it from the list and returning it.

* A new *.insert(i, x)* method will insert item x at position i.

======================
ShadowDicts
======================

ShadowDicts implement many additional methods implemented by standard
Python dicts.

ShadowDicts now have a *get* method that behaves as standard dicts do.
A new *clear* method removes all items from the shadow diction, i.e. it
unsets the shadowed Tcl array.

=============================
Python exception improvements
=============================

We now raise more standard Python TypeError, KeyError and ValueError exceptions
in places where we used to just raise RuntimeError.

======================================
Tohil method improvements and changes
======================================

Tohil.unset can now take an arbitrary number of arguments of variable names
and array elements to unset, include zero.  As before, it is fine to unset
something that doesn't exist.

======================================
Testing Improvements
======================================

* Lots of new tests.
* Also we're now using the hypothesis testing framework and have found
  and fixed a number of problems because of it.
* All tests pass now on 32-bit ARM Linux.
* Linux CI automated testing using Github Actions

======================================
Build Improvements
======================================


