
.. 4.1.rst:

****************************
  What's New In Tohil 4.1
****************************

==================================
tclobjs returned from more places
==================================

* `to=dict` conversions now returns tclobjs for the dictionary values.
* `tclobj.as_dict()` does so as well.

============================================
Python-side callback function registration
============================================

The new `register_callback` function provides a nice way to create Tcl
commands that directly call corresponding Python functions.  This is useful
for processing asynchronous callbacks from the Tcl event loop using Python,
and may be useful for other stuff as well.

============================
Several other improvements
============================

* Pass None from Tcl to Python functions called via `tohil::call`
  by using the `tohil::NONE` sentinel.

* More precise error messages when Tohil startup fails should help
  with troubleshooting installation problems.

* Many new tests.

============================
Numerous bug fixes
============================

* Python builtins can be called from Tcl-side tohil::call without
  resorting to explicitly specifying the builtins namespace.

* Fixed bugs in how tclvars (tclobjs bound to vars) handled some methods,
  such as insert, pop, append, and extend.

* Correct behavior of tclobj iterators, also fixes a crash.

* If Python is initializing Tcl, it now does so using
  `package require` rather than a `Tohil_Init` to cause Tohil's Tcl package
  code to get sourced.  (It also requires the exact version of Tohil that it is,
  to reduce the risk of it loading some other version of the library when
  multiple versions are installed.)

====================================
Considerably improved documentation
====================================

We've considerably improved and extended the Tohil tutorial and
reference, in Python-standard RST format,
and are serving it out at https://flightaware.github.io/tohil-docs/


